A lot of businesses can really scale to
tens of millions of dollars today
profitably with AI. This is Alex,
founder of Hexafield, an AI company that
hit a $200 million annual recurring
revenue in just 9 months, faster than
Slack or Zoom. And what he told me about
starting a business today completely
blew my mind, and you can copy his
strategy, too. Focus on bringing like
the first dollar by day 30 of product
development, and maybe 1 million ARR by
day 90. That's a lot. I just think it's
the next industrial revolution. It's
probably more powerful than the
internet. For many, many young people,
AI becomes social elevator.
>> For someone who still has fear, like
this is moving so fast, I don't know how
I can start. Can you give them one piece
of advice? First, I would start from
I have an amazing guest today. I am so
excited to learn from you. Let's get
very practical right away. You built
Hexafield and achieved $200 million in
revenue in 9 months. Let's imagine every
I don't want this to happen, but let's
imagine a scenario when you have to
start from scratch tomorrow, and you
have 90 days to launch a business idea.
From what you've learned with your
experience at Hexafield, what would you
do? I think it all starts with maybe a
team of two, someone who is builder, who
can go within 24 hours from idea to a
product.
And now it's all becomes possible. There
are so many databases, there are so many
payment systems, and so on, which
simplify creation of MVP. And then
someone, as I call it, go-to-market
person, who has this natural empathy
maybe or understanding of the sort of
target distribution, whom they're
selling to, and who can come up with
interesting kind of new content formats,
which can resonate with the target
audience on social media. And I think
this is a very different skill set from
the like marketing roles of the previous
decades. And how many times should they
be ready to iterate? How many ideas? For
example, for us last year, we were
iterating every day. So, it was six
um days a week and um every day we were
putting new product release.
As we were trying to find workflows and
use cases
which have high frequency and which
matter for our target audience. And
then, once the technology gets there,
it's important to develop sort of the
workflow, which is easy enough but gives
enough configuration as well. This
dilemma of the perfect interface is
still not solved, frankly. So, uh this
is another reason why we embrace daily
iteration. And on top of all of that,
every month the whole industry resets.
They completely push the boundaries in
terms of the capabilities.
There are probably, let's say, five
leading research labs.
And each lab is pushing massive updates
every quarter. So, at some months we
have even two major updates. And it
typically requires to
substantially rebuild the whole product
around those models. So, it's exciting
time today cuz product builders, like
ourselves at Hicksfield, we we just try
to evolve the product so that it
highlights the best possibilities of
these models to our customers. But,
that's a constant embrace.
>> Yeah, it sounds like a very challenging
race. And I think you mentioned that
last year was one of the hardest for you
when a lot of things were not working.
Can you talk to me about that one thing
that actually worked? In
2024,
we really started from the mobile apps.
And things were not working well cuz
retention for mobile apps is relatively
low. Things drastically changed for
Hicksfield when we started to constantly
iterate with creatives. And we just
asked them very simple question like,
"Did you see this video?" This was a
cool AI-generated video and they said,
"Oh, no. How is this possible? What's
the cost?" And we say, "It actually cost
maybe less than $500 to make this
video." And then we ask,
"Did you actually try these models?
What's your experience with AI?"
And and obviously everyone tried AI by
then. Even by maybe February last year,
everyone tried AI, but everyone had some
issues with that. Back then, we realized
that the core limitation was around
camera control. Like a lot of creative
directors, they really want to control
all the camera effects, camera angle,
and so on. Back then, there was no
system to achieve that. So, that's the
initial traction of Hixfil.ai
came from these camera controls, which
we implemented on engineering side based
on the feedback from creatives.
>> So, how many interviews did you have to
conduct to come up with this feature?
>> This is a very good question, but it
kind of puts me on a weak spot, frankly,
cuz we interviewed eight people. Eight
out of eight said the same thing. And we
talked from Hollywood level movie
directors
to like regional producers of
commercials. Everyone had the same
feedback.
>> And how did you select those people?
Were they customers already or you just
wanted to talk to people in the
industry? Actually, this was probably a
challenge as we wanted to talk to people
who
we don't have a very close relationship
to just get an unfiltered opinion. But,
the feedback was very consistent.
Everyone was missing these camera
controls. So, that's what we delivered
March last year. Then in April, we
delivered a library of visual effects.
And then, I think in June,
industry completely changed. We saw the
emergence of AI native
marketing agencies. So, essentially
those agencies, they completely go
end-to-end with AI.
And very often, they try to bypass
incumbent tooling like for example Adobe
or something else and go end-to-end with
AI. On the one side they are very
limited
because
AI capabilities back in June were a
little limited.
On the other hand, they drastically
improve their margin profile
and they
kind of show their clients that they can
build ads within days. A lot of brands
actually want to have constant content
flow on their socials and they want to
embrace AI.
And then from June to December last
year, this um
this new industry of AI native agencies
completely exploded. But basically you
said the the start of your growth was
the multi-angled
uh camera view and it came from talking
to people in the industry. I love that.
And also the number eight is actually
very consistent from what I'm getting uh
talking to other founders. It's normally
like 12 to 20, but it's not too many
interviews cuz I feel like a lot of
people think they need to talk to
thousands of people to figure out the
problem, but it's actually like around
10 interviews.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So eight people who
actually helped us to shape the product
and then I think we hired four of them.
Oh, you also
>> Yes. So now we have this feedback loop
within the team. That's awesome. And
that's how we realized that probably the
best products in creative AI is going to
be built in symbios uh like in
collaboration between engineers and
between cre- creators. So today
roughly half of our maybe 40% of the
team are um engineers, maybe 40% are
creators. Like you said, two founders,
right? One is technical, one knows the
consumer. It's basically reflected in
your team. Okay, let's let's get back to
that tough year because I feel like for
a lot of people that's what they're
scared of. So when you were building
this and nothing was really working and
then Google releases the new video
model.
Did you ever think about giving up on
that particular market and starting
something else because this was getting
so crowded?
>> I think we were committed to figure this
out.
There are two reasons why we had a
conviction.
First, is that prior to that I was at
Snapchat, I was running Genie I there,
and I saw the uprise of TikTok and
CapCut. CapCut became top five apps in
the world.
And it's unprecedented says it's not a
messenger, it's not a social media.
And this was a strong signal for me that
the needs of social media creators are
simply unmet in the markets. And the
second reason why we had conviction, we
constantly heard that creators feel a
burnout
from sort of
feeling pressure
to record multiple videos a day for
socials with their own face. Mr. Beast,
he spoke very openly about that. But
that's I think that that has been a
primary challenge for the whole industry
over last four or five years.
And then what was surprising to me is
that advertisers have the same problem.
Most of the advertisers talk about like
maybe mid-market brands, they can be
spending hundreds of millions of dollars
on marketing and they don't have any
production team. So you chose the right
part of the market. This is what I'm
hearing. So I feel like for every
entrepreneur who's watching,
uh when you see a big opportunity in the
market, you also have to spot who's
paying the most. Not just go after each
user, right? Absolutely. We live in a
very interesting um era where all the
powerful companies try to give AI to
everyone. Literally, Meta, XAI,
Google,
Microsoft, OpenAI, Anthropic, ByteDance,
and many, many more. Think each of those
companies want to give a yacht to all
its customers really. That's why
startups have to have more nuanced view
of the world and have to have more
nuanced set of customers. And I think um
startups today are
sort of
incentivized to stay cash flow positive
and build real business from day zero.
This is what I see across Higgsfield and
other top application AI companies.
So, I think this also creates a very
interesting dynamic that the target
audience should be maybe tens of
millions of users who are willing to
spend hopefully couple thousand dollars
a month. So, this is not for everyone,
but the delivered value should be so
strong
so the product should be so good so that
it kind of sells itself.
>> I love that and I love that you have a
concrete number, $2,000. Yeah, $2,000.
I'm not sure like with Higgsfield, for
example, this is the core metric which
we are tracking. Like
how much
of the value we believe we provide,
which is more like through the user
interviews, but also how much we charge
users
annually. So, this is one key metric and
we are not chasing just monthly active
users, for example. Cuz the monthly
active users number can be inflated
through some viral effect. Monthly
active user doesn't really speak to the
frequency of the usage and the value
delivered.
So, that's why for us really daily
active users and average ACV, average
contract value, those two metrics are
the most important ones. One of the
reasons I was so excited to sit down
with Alex is that our team has actually
been using Higgsfield for a while now.
My producers and editors absolutely love
that all the top AI models are in one
place. Man and bananas, seed ants, clean
veal, Sora. And I love that they don't
need 10 different subscriptions. And
it's kind of incredible. Alex just told
us that last year they were shipping a
new product release 6 days a week. And
now everyone knows them, but they
haven't slowed down. They keep launching
new features. And one of the latest ones
is Sora 2.0. Sora 2.0 is Hex Fit's own
image model, and it's not like anything
else out there. Most AI image
generations, you type a prompt, you get
something that looks fine. Sora was
built specifically for creative work,
fashion, editorial, content. It actually
understands aesthetics. You give it a
reference photo, and it doesn't just
copy it. It reads the lighting, the
grain, the mood, the era, like a
creative director would. There are three
models. Sora, that's the core model. You
prompt, you get a beautiful image with
real aesthetic awareness. Sora
reference, you upload a reference and it
generates new images that match the
vibe, not just the composition. Same
visual DNA, different shots. And Sora
ID, you upload 10 or more photos of
yourself, it learns your face structure,
skin tone, expressions, then it
generates you in any style. Y2K,
editorial, film photography, Polaroid,
20 different presets at launch. And here
is what actually got me. You can specify
the camera medium. Say, shot on Kodak
Portra, or disposable camera, and it
changes the grain, the color science,
everything. It doesn't slap on a filter,
it actually shifts the entire feel of
the image. And the same thing works with
color. They just added hex colors, so
you can pull the exact palette from any
photo and apply it straight to your
generations. If you want to try Sora
2.0, I'll leave the link in the
description. And now, let's get back to
Alex. Can you give advice to people who
are watching who haven't started yet,
but they haven't started because they
think a large company is going to take
over? How should they think about their
defensibility? I think each company can
really keep their focus on maybe two or
three top priorities. Interestingly
enough, people like to say about
Anthropic that their major success from
MCP and Claude Cods actually was not
like a top-down, but really bottom-up.
And it like Claude Cod's success was not
sort of planned.
And I think it's true that like these
large companies, they definitely can
benefit a lot from applying top-down
approach from two to three initiatives
and really consolidating all the
resources to make the most progress
there. I just think it's the next
industrial revolution. It's probably
more powerful than the internet. So, the
number of products and ideas to be
built, I think just outweighs uh
uh number of ideas which OpenAI or
Anthropic can push internally. That's
why I would encourage builders to build.
Especially today when like
quite small team of maybe 10 people can
build like high-scale products. Do you
think there is that we have a certain
gap of in time when we can build? So,
for example, I've been hearing a lot in
social media that we only have 2 years
to build something new because then
we're going to have some companies that
reach AGI and it's going to be
impossible to find a gap in the market
because those companies are going to be
filling those gaps. This is a good
question. We definitely make um
tremendous progress as an industry to
automating uh work in digital worlds.
And for sure, maybe next decade, there
are going to be a lot of applications of
AI in physical worlds. It's difficult to
forecast how much progress we all are
going to make there, but this decade is
definitely the era of digital economy
completely changing with with AI. That's
for sure. I really don't want to believe
in the future when there are going to be
maybe three labs who have the best
models and these models controlling all
the worlds. This could happen. That
would be very difficult future. So, I
would
I try to stay optimistic and encourage
everyone to stay optimistic and really
focus on building and delivering value.
Like, for example, um today
I just want to give you a very concrete
example. So, I recently spoke to a very
large, very, very large
like property management company, which
actually uses Higgsfield to to sort of
advertise their buildings, their uh
apartments, and so on.
Like, no one is building for this
industry. Like, in this industry, there
is a very specific um
workflow of a customer.
Like, customer needs to learn about
about the property, then they need to go
to the website and get all the details,
then they need to call, then they need
to show up, then they leave deposit, and
the whole customer journey. No one is
actually building solution specifically
for this industry to like cover this
journey end-to-end with agents. And the
reason why agents are going to deliver a
lot of value in this specific business
is that uh customers who want to, maybe,
let's say, rent apartment, especially in
certain price points, they want to make
a decision rather quickly.
So, every day of delay, every day of
just moving from one stage to another,
is just
is just lost revenue. So, and this
business owner just said to me that no
one is building for their industry. And
And I'm confident there are many more
examples like that. Yeah, so riches are
in the niches, as as they say. From your
experience, when you pitched VCs with
another AI idea, what makes a pitch
stand out these days?
>> I think today, um there is definitely
fear that OpenAI, Anthropic, and other
labs are going to just uh be
uh very acquisitive and uh just trying
to expand their product offering to
multiple different verticals. Pretty
much every week there is
cloud for X launched and stocks go down.
That definitely happens and that creates
a lot of fear. And I would just say that
the core inside for me personally was
that most of these
hot and the hyped AI companies
they are actually cash flow positive.
Like maybe
it is a wrong mindset to go and raise
venture capital today.
I think there is plenty of pre-seed
capital available today.
But I'm not sure every everyone needs
like to raise series A, B, C, D and so
on.
>> How much revenue did you have when you
raised your first round?
>> For me with Kickstart AI it was probably
easier cuz I had previous exits and we
basically raised $16 million without
having any revenue just with maybe
having like million users
for our mobile app. But this is not
exactly the way how I would recommend to
build today. I would recommend to
focus on bringing like the first
dollar by day 30 of product development
and maybe 1 million ARR by day 90 and
then decide if someone needs VC funding
or doesn't. I mean a lot of businesses
can really scale to tens of millions of
dollars today profitably with AI. And
for such businesses there is no need to
attract VC funding. I can give you very
simple example. So there are so many
websites which just allowed to make
professional photo shoot like for
basically for for passport.
Many of them make tens of millions of
dollars. None of them are going to be
Yeah, none of them are going to be
venture capital backed business.
Well, and you said something $1 million
by day 90.
>> ARR meaning like 80K a month. 80 80K a
month in 3 months that's a lot. And so
the the playbook to achieve that is
basically generate ads and launch them
and test whether whether they're landing
with your target audience.
>> Paid ads are very difficult today, I
think. A lot of distribution come
through organic social media and creator
integrations.
And just make sure that by day
30,
uh there is monetization in place, and
then there is
a way to constantly grow to revenue to,
let's say, 1 uh million ARR by day 90.
Many successful uh companies scale very
quickly today. Just different
verticals have different capacity. Some
In some verticals, the ceiling could be
just 50 million. In other vertical, 1
billion. In other verticals, like 100
billion.
>> Any tips on landing first customers in
the first 30 days?
>> Initially, especially last year, Twitter
has been the social media
where the distribution starts from. It
starts from like small communities, then
it goes to AI news pages on X, then from
AI news pages on X, it goes to Instagram
news pages, then from Instagram news
pages to creators, then it goes to
Telegram and like other social media.
That's what we have seen with Higgsfield
and with many other products as well,
that they went through the same sort of
journey of popularity and news through
various social media. But it all
originated on X. I think now it's being
kind of changed.
Today, a lot of hype is like a lot of
companies, they sort of try to use X to
boost their product.
Uh sort of signal-to-noise ratio just
drops. Twitter becomes less relevant,
but still it's it's the main place for
new AI products launch. That's awesome.
I'm still trying to crack the the X
strategy. I feel like if you add a word
breaking or just in to whatever you're
posting in the beginning, it should be
in caps. Like then then it will to
perform.
>> then it's some something should be like
claud, cooked. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's
like
>> RIP, like something like that.
>> Yeah, just wiped this out of the market.
Yeah, it has to be very sensational
next. But you're so right. I've heard so
many and I know a lot of creators who
built their whole like email newsletter,
1 million subscribers just off viral X
uh posts.
>> Yeah. That's amazing. I love this life
hack. Thank you so much. Although this
has been the primary life hack of the 25
and I do believe that's the media
evolves itself as well. So 26 could be
different.
>> Well, I would see LinkedIn on the rise,
though.
>> [laughter]
>> Maybe LinkedIn. Maybe LinkedIn.
>> You had a previous company. You sold it
for 166
million.
>> Were there any key learnings from that
business or mistakes that you made that
you will never repeat in this one? It
it's it's like never say never, but one
of the key learnings for me and the key
takeaways was to
embrace meritocracy, sort of.
Like
I'm [clears throat] 30 and I feel
sometimes that I am quite old
for this new era of AI. Like a lot of
new ideas at in Hicks will today come
from these kind of fresh grads, maybe
23, 25, who sort of maybe never worked
in a large company, who are doing like
freelancing with some web coding tools,
who are doing web coding before the term
web coding, basically. And uh they
they just think differently and I think
that's sort of maybe the right mindset.
So traditionally in any like
corporation, those people would be just
simply no one would just simply listen
to them. So and the same applies to the
creative role. So there is definitely
some resistance from people who
especially build like, let's say, like
large Hollywood projects, that's all AI
is dangerous, it's not authentic.
And it's in the same time it's really
exciting that for many, many people,
young people AI becomes social elevator.
And I sort of strongly relate to that
personally cuz for me I had to do a lot
of competitive programming, you know,
like who solves more problem within like
5 hours, you know, like and everyone in
the world competes. So, this was social
elevator in 2010 maybe. And this applies
both to uh creative and to software
engineering as well. I love how you said
that AI is a social elevator cuz I feel
like social media was the social
elevator for me and now is the era of
AI. I think you mentioned that video
models could be a path to AGI and that
you're also building a world model. Can
you talk to me about that? And for
everyone who's watching, just wanted to
explain I was just in Davos and everyone
was talking about
LLMs having a ceiling because basically
just describing our world with words is
something that we're used to and there's
a lot of information on the internet,
but understanding the physics is the
next level. And once we understand the
physics, then we're going to have robots
walking around our house and doing
chores if I'm explaining this correctly.
>> Absolutely. I think Demis
from Google and Elon from xAI, they
started this narrative.
And definitely they are top influencers
in the space, that's why now the
narrative goes to message to everyone.
It's still unclear if that's sort of the
path to AGI, although that's definitely
a path to advanced robotic systems.
Like I think Elon proved to the whole
world that self-driving cars can work
really well through just cameras.
And I think the same logic is going to
apply to more advanced robots as well.
That's why developing perception and
visual understanding is critical for
next wave of robotics. And it's a top
priority for a lot of research labs as
it's the next frontier. And
there is no other way to improve video
generation without visual understanding.
Roughly it takes around I think people
like to say that in 1 minute we can read
200 words.
1 minute of the video e can be described
with maybe
10 60,000 words. There is just so much
going on. If you and I were having
coffee after this episode, I'd certainly
pull out my phone and say, "Look what I
tried this week. It changed how my tea
works." This is what I do all the time.
To share these kinds of things that
don't fit into the podcast, I started my
own newsletter. Every week I write about
AI tools, strategies, and experiments
I'm running in my own business with real
numbers, real results, templates that
you can use, and also honest mistakes.
If you want to be in the loop, the link
is waiting for you in the description.
So, where do you see yourself in 2
years? Are you still working on videos
or because I cuz I saw Menlo Ventures
announce their investment in you and
they they said that Hicks' field is
building the next world model. Do you
feel like your focus is going to shift
to that or you still going to stick to
the marketing with video? I think that
what differentiates us from many other
is we are from day zero we are focused
specifically on short-form content.
And I do think that world model is going
to change the way how social media
content is made.
So, for example, next decade is going to
be the era of interactive media.
Uh basically when games and videos are
sort of blurred in like one experience
where like it's kind of choose your own
adventure. So, a lot of marketing is
going to go this way, especially kind of
premium marketing and customer loyalty
programs. I think this decade is all
about supercharging
creators and marketing with those
models. You said you're seeing customers
with marketing budget over a hundred
million dollars, 90% of their ads are AI
generated. As a creator whose 90% of my
revenue is from large corporations
through from their marketing budgets,
should I be afraid?
This is a good question and um this is
definitely where we should make sure
that video AI
can help personalities. Like what's I
would love to see is that
creators like you, Mr. Beast and so on,
who are sort of AI native, start to make
like more channels and just expand their
media presence and be like the whole
media empire. So like the next media
empire is going to be built maybe with
like 300 people, 500 people
and be worth like $10 billion. So that's
on the one side. On the other side, what
I see personally is that essentially
this
high-scale AI content creation
comes
after
maybe platforms like TikTok marketplace,
frankly.
So in the past those brands they could
just hire sort of even programmatically
thousands of creators through TikTok
marketplace just to do kind of these
templateized
videos. Like I use this product, it's so
good, go buy that.
So like this entry-level marketing
definitely gets democratized.
Although in my opinion, as we are seeing
a lot of AI slop on social media and so
on
the genuine connection and and
understanding of audience now matter
more than ever.
So there are going to be just a lot of
average and above average contents
on the socials.
And I think this is happening one way or
another
and just deep understanding of the
audience and authentic approach matter
more than ever. Okay, so you think
social media a ladder, social ladder is
not dead. Definitely not. I just think
that authenticity is going to matter a
lot.
And and the way how I think about that
is if let's say top creators now can
make their own
shows, their own movies with AI.
And creators can drive a lot of traffic.
That's going to affect like streaming
business a lot, I think. So, I think the
revolution is going to come at every
level. Although, I think clearly people
who already understand their audience,
who have authentic approach, those
people are definitely going to be the
winners. Okay. My last question. For
someone who's watching this
still has fear. Like this is moving so
fast. I don't know how I can start. I
started something today, it's outdated
by tomorrow.
Can you give them one piece of advice so
they can start? First, I think I would
start from a position that
large companies, Amazon, Microsoft,
Google, OpenAI, Anthropic, think they're
all relatively well positioned
to be winners in AI era as they simply
control data centers, GPUs, and so on.
But I'm not sure there is much insurance
policy for everyone else regardless,
right?
>> Buy their stocks, yeah? I don't know.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. You just buy their stocks. Yeah,
yeah. Buying their stocks is a good
idea.
But that's I think I'm not sure we can
share that.
>> advice. It's just personal chat. Yeah, I
do think that there is a a lot of value
in these companies. But I mean for for
lots of others, right? I mean we see the
sell-off across SaaS. We see the
sell-off across cybersecurity. And then
there is an ultimate question. If I want
to
like basically depend on someone else to
figure out AI strategy or I want to
embrace AI myself and benefit the most,
right? I think that's a personal
question for everyone. And as we all
know that these technology revolutions,
they're both fair and and unfair. I
think in long term every technology
revolution is fair and GDP per capita
and quality of life goes up on the
horizon of 10 years. On the horizon of
like 3 years, I think it's extremely
unfair cuz market just loves to pour
money into companies which are winning.
And companies which are like not
winning, they immediately go down.
But in the short term, I think that it's
going to be fair cuz people um both on
the creative side, marketing side,
engineering side, those who are
embracing AI,
they can propel their careers so
quickly. In the end of the day, net it's
going to be net positive, although I
think um individually we all just need
to think how I can
personally benefit the most from AI, how
I can become more efficient with the AI,
how the value of my skill set can
actually grow with the AI.
And um this
always require using those
um agents and various AI models
several hours a day to to build this
intuition. Let's give them a home task.
What should they do right after watching
this video? Which tool should they start
using and how?
>> For me personally, I'm an immigrant, so
you know, it just takes quite a bit of
effort to
come with a
logical linear storyline. All three mini
became my coach, really. This was the
first aha moment for me. The second aha
moment was around Gemini 3 Pro model.
So, I felt that my economic productivity
really depends on like how much I use
Gemini 3 model. These capabilities of
the model which can process voice, which
can make image, but which has also deep
reasoning capabilities and deep
research, this was mind-blowing to me.
So, that's why I feel that
my just economic throughputs really
depend on how much I use Gemini 3 today.
Do you use it to make decisions about
your company, like strategic operations?
>> I really feel that communication with
humans
becomes way more
important skill set for me.
Cuz a lot of other decisions, I'm sure
Gemini 3 and Claude are going to be
better than myself.
AI is not is not yet good in
communication.
So, that's where I think I try to put a
lot of my personal emphasis. Mhm. Think
other than that, um a lot of process can
actually be built with AI. So, um just
human-to-human communication and sort of
conflicts resolution
and maybe goal set goal setting. Yeah.
And like number-driven goal setting
really is where I put a lot of my time,
my personal time. For everything else,
I'm trying to evolve Gemini as much as
possible. But also use Claude for Excel,
Claude for X,
like for example, Claude for
cybersecurity, as it really increases
the productivity. Alex, thank you so
much. It was amazing. I'm looking
forward to reading your comments. What
was your key takeaway and what you're
going to do right after this video?
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.